Based on what I have understood from the reading pdf file titled "PASCHAL MYSTERY", the paschal mystery is the passion, death, suffering, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus Christ. In addition, the paschal mystery is a very important key concept for the believer of Jesus Christ, who died for our sins and rose from his death, so we can all be salvage from our sin, making us able to be with him in heaven. This is the reason why the cross that is used to makes Jesus suffer to his death is now a powerful symbol of Christianity today because it reminds us of the suffering that Jesus had to go through just for the sake of his love for all of us. Before, I thought the process of Jesus’s passion, suffering, resurrection, and ascension is somewhat difficult to understand even for a believer like me because it shows both characteristics of a God and a characteristic of man, which is contradictory. Like, how is it possible for a God to feel the suffering and death, and also how is it possible for a man to be resurrected and to ascend? After reading the file make me wonder thought on why do we need to suffer and its importance of suffering because Jesus did it too. After reading the pdf file titled “PASCHAL MYSTERY”, it all started to make sense why the paschal mystery is important and its purpose.
 
I've learned that Jesus Christ was crucified because he breaks the Sabbath Law of the 3rd commandment by healing a man with withered hand on the Sabbath Day, which is considered a grievous act against the Jewish society and it is punishable by crucifixion in Jewish society. Jesus break the Sabbath Law because he believes that sabbath day was made for man, not the other way around. The other reasons that it is important to take note on why he violated the Sabbath Law is that God desire mercy from his people not sacrifice or offering, it is lawful to good on the Sabbath day, Jesus is lord even of the Sabbath, meaning he has the authority over the rules and regulations that govern the Sabbath day, and lastly God is always working and so does Jesus is. In addition, the Jewish communities believe in religious legalism, which makes their lives centered on rigid view and literal obedience to the 10 commandments, so they are really strict when it come breaking the 10 commandment which they believe that comes from God.
 
Jesus Christ’s sacrificed is the manifestation of his good-hearted and good will for all of us. Based on the definition given by Jose De Mesa and Lode Wostyn for “kagandahang-loob”, it is a characteristic that embodied goodness, kindness, kindheartedness, benevolence, helpfulness, and generosity. A good example of who exhibits this “kagandahang-loob” is Jesus because he devoted his life for all of us, Jesus did not even use his God nature to his advantage to be praised and worship as the God of human, but he devoted himself to be a servant for human who can empathize with our suffering and our weakness to temptation, which makes him susceptible to death. After Jesus Christ’s passion, suffering, resurrection, and ascension he give us the freedom from pain which is heaven so we can be with him in the afterlife. It is Jesus ‘s sacrifice and goodwill is the reason why we can all ascend to heaven after our death. Jesus is indeed a good-hearted person and a man of good will because of the sacrifice he did for all of us.
 
 
CONCLUSION
To conclude, paschal mystery is a reminder for all of us on how God really care for us and the true meaning of self sacrifice. The sacrifice our God is for the freedom of pain for all of us. It is an act of love from our God that we should also learn to incorporate in our life for the “ikakaginhawa” of everyon. It is because living with and for others requires sacrifice. Overall, I learn so much from reading the pdf file titled “PASCHAL MYSTER” that it clears the confusion I had in my head before and it gave me the context why the Jewish society want to crucify Jesus.
 
